source/MySEProject/Documentation/Readme.md, before:

# Implement the KNN Classifier 

K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) is a classification algorithm that predicts the class label of a new data point by analyzing the labels of its k nearest neighbors in the training data using a distance metric like Euclidean distance. Selecting the optimal number of neighbors (k) is crucial to balance variance and overfitting. KNN offers a simple and interpretable approach to classification, making it widely used in various applications.

Combining the K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) algorithm with the Hierarchical Temporal Memory (HTM) framework can boost the accuracy of classifying temporal data. By using KNN within HTM, we can better spot patterns and similarities in sequential data, leading to more precise predictions.

**This project aims to assess the effectiveness of the K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) classifier by integrating it with the Neocoretex API.**

The project consists of the following main parts:
- Implementing the native KNN classifier
- Integration of KNN with Neocortex API
- Using Spatial Pooler generated SDRs for KNN classifier.


## Implementation of Native KNN Classifier
The Native KNN classifier takes multiple data streams which belongs to three distinct classes based on two feature sets. Then an unknown data point (item)is fed to the classifier and Analyze(New data point, data stream, k value, No. of Classes) method is employed to predict the class to which the new data point belongs.

_**Sample Data**_

```
public static double[][] GetData()
 { 
   //Summary//
   //The Three Classes are 0, 1, 2//

     double[][] data = new double[30][];

     data[0] = new double[] { 0, 0.32, 0.43, 0 };
     data[1] = new double[] { 1, 0.26, 0.54, 0 };
     data[2] = new double[] { 2, 0.27, 0.6, 0 };
     .
     .
     .
     data[27] = new double[] { 27, 0.66, 0.14, 2 };
     data[28] = new double[] { 28, 0.64, 0.24, 2 };
     data[29] = new double[] { 29, 0.71, 0.22, 2 };

```
```
unclassified data point = { 0.38, 0.42 };
```
**Path to the Native KNN**: 
Inside `MySEProject` folder, there is a folder named `Task1`. From there run the `Program.cs` file to run this project.
Classifier: [Native KNN](https://github.com/Fahad-Jabbar/neocortexapi/blob/KNN_Quest1/source/MySEProject/Task1/KNN%20Classifier/KNN%20Classifier/Program.cs)

**Testing**: 
Unit tests are added for the KNN classifier under KNNTesting.cs
Path to the Unit test: [KNNTesting.cs](https://github.com/Fahad-Jabbar/neocortexapi/blob/KNN_Quest1/source/MySEProject/Task1/KNN%20Classifier/KNN_Test/KNNTesting.cs)

## Implementation of KNN with Neocortex API
KNN classifier is implemented with Neocortex API, it takes multiple sequence with their respective labels and train the model. Once the model is trained, unknown data sequence can be tested on the model for classification.

**For Example:**
The unique integer sequences with labels are fed into the model for training. The KNN implementation of the classifier can then predict the unknown sequence using the Analyze(double[] item, Dictionary<string, List<double>> sequences, int k, int c) method.

_**Sample Data**_

```

1st Sequence = { 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0, 7.0 }
2nd Sequence = { 10.0, 11.0, 12.0, 13.0, 14.0, 15.0, 16.0 }
3rd Sequence = { 14.0, 17.0, 20.0, 23.0, 27.0, 30.0, 33.0 }

unclassified Sequence = { 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 7.0, 8.0, 9.0 }

```

**Path to the Project**: 
Inside `sample` folder, there is a folder named ` NeoCortexApiSample`. From there run the `Program.cs` file to run this project.
Classifier: [NneighborsClassifier.cs](https://github.com/Fahad-Jabbar/neocortexapi/blob/KNN_Quest1/source/NeoCortexApi/Classifiers/NneighborsClassifier.cs)

**Testing**: 
Unit tests are implemented for the KNN classifier in the KNN_UTest folder.
Path to the Unit test: [UnitTest1.cs](https://github.com/Fahad-Jabbar/neocortexapi/blob/KNN_Quest1/source/KNN_UTest/UnitTest1.cs)


## Using SP generated SDRs for KNN Classifier
The KNN classifier integrated with the NeoCortex API for processing spatial pooler generated SDRs (Sparse Distributed Representations)is initiated by loading the csv file which consists of SDR data. During processing, the data is split into training and testing sets. 80% of the data is used for training and 20% is used as testing dataset. Once the model is trained, it can be tested on the testing dataset to classify the data.

The performance of the KNN classifier can also be evaluated through two distinct methods: k-fold cross-validation or a single test. In k-fold cross-validation, the dataset is divided into k equal-sized folds, and the classifier is trained and tested k times, with each fold serving as the testing set once and the remaining data used for training. This process allows for a comprehensive assessment of the classifier's generalization ability by ensuring that each data point is used for both training and testing at different stages. On the other hand, the single test option allows users to assess the classifier's performance on a single split of the dataset, typically divided into training and testing subsets using a the 80% to 20% ratio. This approach provides a quick evaluation of the classifier's accuracy without the computational overhead of k-fold cross-validation, making it suitable for scenarios where efficiency is a priority.

_**Sample Data**_

```

SDRs based Training Data = { 637,	641,	659,	661,	677,	704,	711,	738, 753,	761,	767,	786,	806,	848,	863,	931,	939,	947,	968,	1010,	0
184,	188,	202,	214,	216,	224,	225,	231,	252,	253,	267,	303,	310, 348,	352,	1975,	2010,	2026,	2028,	2029,	1}

unclassified Sequence = { 901, 936, 946, 953, 957, 961, 973, 981, 991, 997, 1002, 1014, 1017, 1025, 1034, 1047, 1069, 1100, 1111, 1128 }

```
The output of this project gives the labeled classification of the testing data.

**Path to the Project**: 
Inside `MySEProject` folder, there is a folder named `Task3`. From there run the `Program.cs` file to run this project.
[program.cs](https://github.com/Fahad-Jabbar/neocortexapi/blob/KNN_Quest1/source/MySEProject/Task3/KNN_SP_SDRs/KNN_SP_SDRs/KNN_SDRs.cs)

**Testing**: 
Unit tests are implemented for the KNN classifier in the KNN_UnitTest folder.
Path to the Unit test: [UnitTest1.cs](https://github.com/Fahad-Jabbar/neocortexapi/blob/KNN_Quest1/source/MySEProject/Task3/KNN_SP_SDRs/KNN_UnitTest/UnitTest1.cs)

Commit message:

Adding about Neocortex in Readme

source/MySEProject/Documentation/Readme.md, after:

# Implement the KNN Classifier 

K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) is a classification algorithm that predicts the class label of a new data point by analyzing the labels of its k nearest neighbors in the training data using a distance metric like Euclidean distance. Selecting the optimal number of neighbors (k) is crucial to balance variance and overfitting. KNN offers a simple and interpretable approach to classification, making it widely used in various applications.

Combining the K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) algorithm with the Hierarchical Temporal Memory (HTM) framework can boost the accuracy of classifying temporal data. By using KNN within HTM, we can better spot patterns and similarities in sequential data, leading to more precise predictions.

Hierarchical Temporal Memory (HTM) is a machine learning technology that aims to mimic the cortical algorithm of the neocortex. It comprises two key components: the Spatial Pooler and Temporal Memory. The Spatial Pooler strengthens synapses to recognize objects based on repeated stimuli, while Temporal Memory learns and predicts sequences of Sparse Distributed Representations. This integration enables pattern recognition and accurate predictions in HTM CLA.

This project evaluates the K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) classifier and implements by integrating it with the Neocortex API.

The project consists of the following main parts:
- Implementing the native KNN classifier
- Integration of KNN with Neocortex API
- Using Spatial Pooler generated SDRs for KNN classifier.


## Implementation of Native KNN Classifier
The Native KNN classifier takes multiple data streams which belongs to three distinct classes based on two feature sets. Then an unknown data point (item)is fed to the classifier and Analyze(New data point, data stream, k value, No. of Classes) method is employed to predict the class to which the new data point belongs.

_**Sample Data**_

```
public static double[][] GetData()
 { 
   //Summary//
   //The Three Classes are 0, 1, 2//

     double[][] data = new double[30][];

     data[0] = new double[] { 0, 0.32, 0.43, 0 };
     data[1] = new double[] { 1, 0.26, 0.54, 0 };
     data[2] = new double[] { 2, 0.27, 0.6, 0 };
     .
     .
     .
     data[27] = new double[] { 27, 0.66, 0.14, 2 };
     data[28] = new double[] { 28, 0.64, 0.24, 2 };
     data[29] = new double[] { 29, 0.71, 0.22, 2 };

```
```
unclassified data point = { 0.38, 0.42 };
```
**Path to the Native KNN**: 
Inside `MySEProject` folder, there is a folder named `Task1`. From there run the `Program.cs` file to run this project.
Classifier: [Native KNN](https://github.com/Fahad-Jabbar/neocortexapi/blob/KNN_Quest1/source/MySEProject/Task1/KNN%20Classifier/KNN%20Classifier/Program.cs)

**Testing**: 
Unit tests are added for the KNN classifier under KNNTesting.cs
Path to the Unit test: [KNNTesting.cs](https://github.com/Fahad-Jabbar/neocortexapi/blob/KNN_Quest1/source/MySEProject/Task1/KNN%20Classifier/KNN_Test/KNNTesting.cs)

## Implementation of KNN with Neocortex API
KNN classifier is implemented with Neocortex API, it takes multiple sequence with their respective labels and train the model. Once the model is trained, unknown data sequence can be tested on the model for classification.

**For Example:**
The unique integer sequences with labels are fed into the model for training. The KNN implementation of the classifier can then predict the unknown sequence using the Analyze(double[] item, Dictionary<string, List<double>> sequences, int k, int c) method.

_**Sample Data**_

```

1st Sequence = { 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0, 7.0 }
2nd Sequence = { 10.0, 11.0, 12.0, 13.0, 14.0, 15.0, 16.0 }
3rd Sequence = { 14.0, 17.0, 20.0, 23.0, 27.0, 30.0, 33.0 }

unclassified Sequence = { 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 7.0, 8.0, 9.0 }

```

**Path to the Project**: 
Inside `sample` folder, there is a folder named ` NeoCortexApiSample`. From there run the `Program.cs` file to run this project.
Classifier: [NneighborsClassifier.cs](https://github.com/Fahad-Jabbar/neocortexapi/blob/KNN_Quest1/source/NeoCortexApi/Classifiers/NneighborsClassifier.cs)

**Testing**: 
Unit tests are implemented for the KNN classifier in the KNN_UTest folder.
Path to the Unit test: [UnitTest1.cs](https://github.com/Fahad-Jabbar/neocortexapi/blob/KNN_Quest1/source/KNN_UTest/UnitTest1.cs)


## Using SP generated SDRs for KNN Classifier
The KNN classifier integrated with the NeoCortex API for processing spatial pooler generated SDRs (Sparse Distributed Representations)is initiated by loading the csv file which consists of SDR data. During processing, the data is split into training and testing sets. 80% of the data is used for training and 20% is used as testing dataset. Once the model is trained, it can be tested on the testing dataset to classify the data.

The performance of the KNN classifier can also be evaluated through two distinct methods: k-fold cross-validation or a single test. In k-fold cross-validation, the dataset is divided into k equal-sized folds, and the classifier is trained and tested k times, with each fold serving as the testing set once and the remaining data used for training. This process allows for a comprehensive assessment of the classifier's generalization ability by ensuring that each data point is used for both training and testing at different stages. On the other hand, the single test option allows users to assess the classifier's performance on a single split of the dataset, typically divided into training and testing subsets using a the 80% to 20% ratio. This approach provides a quick evaluation of the classifier's accuracy without the computational overhead of k-fold cross-validation, making it suitable for scenarios where efficiency is a priority.

_**Sample Data**_

```

SDRs based Training Data = { 637,	641,	659,	661,	677,	704,	711,	738, 753,	761,	767,	786,	806,	848,	863,	931,	939,	947,	968,	1010,	0
184,	188,	202,	214,	216,	224,	225,	231,	252,	253,	267,	303,	310, 348,	352,	1975,	2010,	2026,	2028,	2029,	1}

unclassified Sequence = { 901, 936, 946, 953, 957, 961, 973, 981, 991, 997, 1002, 1014, 1017, 1025, 1034, 1047, 1069, 1100, 1111, 1128 }

```
The output of this project gives the labeled classification of the testing data.

**Path to the Project**: 
Inside `MySEProject` folder, there is a folder named `Task3`. From there run the `Program.cs` file to run this project.
[program.cs](https://github.com/Fahad-Jabbar/neocortexapi/blob/KNN_Quest1/source/MySEProject/Task3/KNN_SP_SDRs/KNN_SP_SDRs/KNN_SDRs.cs)

**Testing**: 
Unit tests are implemented for the KNN classifier in the KNN_UnitTest folder.
Path to the Unit test: [UnitTest1.cs](https://github.com/Fahad-Jabbar/neocortexapi/blob/KNN_Quest1/source/MySEProject/Task3/KNN_SP_SDRs/KNN_UnitTest/UnitTest1.cs)
